[Term Entry] JavaScript Dates .setUTCMonth() (#2783)
Codecademy/docs: content/javascript/concepts/dates/terms/setUTCMonth/setUTCMonth.md

---
Title: '.setUTCMonth()'

> Description: 'Sets the month value of a date object according to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Sets the month value of a date according to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Date'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

> The **setUTCMonth()** method sets the month of a date object according to universal time (UTC). The month is specified as an integer from 0 to 11, where 0 represents January and 11 represents December.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.setUTCMonth()`** method sets the month of a `Date` object according to universal time (UTC). 
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
dateObject.setUTCMonth(month)
dateObject.setUTCMonth(month, day)

> ```

Reviewer: add a space after the pseudo block

> The `setUTCMonth()` method is called on the `dateObject` object with the integer input argument `month` and optionally `day` in addition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `.setUTCMonth()` method is called on `dateObject` with the integer input argument `month`, and optionally `day` as well.
```

Author: added the dot and comma, and ended the sentence after "day" to make the sentence shorter and more to the point.

> - `month` (required): Expected values are in the range between 0-11, but other values are accepted:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `month` (required): Expected values are in the range between `0-11`, but other values are accepted:
```

>     - -1 will set `dateObject` to the last month of the previous year

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `-1` will set `dateObject` to the last month of the previous year
```

>     - 12 will set `dateObject` to the first month of the following year

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `12` will set `dateObject` to the first month of the following year
```

> - `day` (optional): Expected values are in the range between 1-31, but other values are accepted:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `day` (optional): Expected values are in the range between `1-31`, but other values are accepted:
```

>     - Any value smaller than 1 will roll over to the previous month (0 will set `dateObject` to the last day of the previous month)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Any value smaller than `1` will roll over to the previous month (`0` will set `dateObject` to the last day of the previous month)
```

    - Any value greater than the number of days in a month will roll over to the following month

## Examples

> This example sets the month and day. It prints differently formatted dates uses methods to get the month and day individually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example sets the month and day and returns a variety of date formats to the console.

```

```javascript
const dateObject = new Date('2020-05-10T00:00:00');
dateObject.setUTCMonth(2, 20); // Month, Day (optional)

console.log(dateObject);
console.log(dateObject.toUTCString());
console.log("Month: " + dateObject.getUTCMonth(), "\nDay: " + dateObject.getUTCDay());

> ```

Reviewer: add a line break after the block and after the output sentence

The code above results in the following output:
```shell
2020-03-20T00:00:00.000Z
Fri, 20 Mar 2020 00:00:00 GMT
Month: 2 
Day: 5
```

> > Note: The first month of the year is 0, the first day of the month is 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

> **Note:** The first month of the year is `0`, the first day of the month is `1`.
```

> This example showcases the rollover of dates with values outside of the expected range:

Reviewer: modify the spacing in this example as noted above

```javascript
const dateObject = new Date(Date.UTC(2000, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5)); // Year, Month, Day, Hour, Minute, Second, Millisecond

dateObject.setUTCMonth(0, 1); // 1st month of year, 1st day of month
console.log(dateObject);

> dateObject.setUTCMonth(-1); // month out of range, rolls over to previous year

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dateObject.setUTCMonth(-1); // Month out of range, rolls over to previous year
```

console.log(dateObject);

> dateObject.setUTCMonth(12, 32); // month and day out of range, rolls over to following year and month

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dateObject.setUTCMonth(12, 32); // Month and day out of range, rolls over to following year and month
```

console.log(dateObject);
```

> The code above results in the following output:

Reviewer: It may also be beneficial to change the code to return output values that use .toUTCString() or other formats that are more colloquial, so, that the changes between the original date and the updates are more evident.

Author: I added .toUTCString() in addition to the other output.
I agree with you that it might be good to account for different preferences. Personally, I prefer the original output but that is certainly not the case for everyone.
If you think it's better to keep only one output, I can change it to only .toUTCString() though.
